1. Which data visualization are you critiquing?

https://jef.works/genomic-data-visualization-2023/blog/2023/01/27/galexa13/

2. Do you think the author was effective in making salient the point they said they wanted to make? Why or why not?

Gwyn attempted to make salient the relationship between the number of genes expressed (the number of genes with non-zero gene count for a given cell) and the area of the cell as well as the relationship between the number of genes expressed and the total gene expression (the total gene count for a given cell). In my opinion, Gwyn’s plot is a little confusing to understand the relationship between the number of genes and the area of the cell. Since Gwyn used a geometric primitive of line to represent each cell while using x position and y position to encode the number of genes expressed and the area of cells, respectively, cells overlap with each other on the plot, and the plot looks like a histogram with normal distribution. Thus, my intuition first led me to believe that her plot tried to plot a histogram of the number of gene expressed with cell count on the y-axis. In addition, due to the fact that cells are overlapping with each other, it is difficult to see the position of each cell on the plot. On the other hand, Gwyn’s plot is salient to show the relationship between the number of genes expressed and the total number of expression. It is easy to observe that higher number of genes expressed lead to higher total gene expression. However, using geometric primitive of line makes it difficult to distinguish each cell.

3. How could you improve the data visualization in making salient the point they said they wanted to make?

In order to improve the saliency of both relationships, each cell can be represented as geometric primitive of point. In addition, x and y positions can be used to encode the number of genes expressed and total gene expression, respectively. A linear trend line can be overlayed to the points to further indicate the positive correlation between the number of genes expressed and total gene expression. To encode cell area, size of the points can be used to make it more intuitive. Or, color saturation can be used to prevent points overlapping with each other when large cells are near each other while allowing the audience to still see the relationship between the number of genes expressed and cell area.
