1. Which data visualization are you critiquing?

https://jef.works/genomic-data-visualization-2023/blog/2023/02/06/xgu18/

2. Do you think the author was effective in making salient the point they said they wanted to make? Why or why not?

I believe that Gabriel did a great job and was effective in making salient the effects of data transformation on linear dimensionality reduction. She used effective geometric primitives and visual channels for each type of data that she visualized. In addition, since she used the Gestalt principle of proximity to organize each type of plots (screen plot, total variance plot, PCA plot) by columns and the Gestalt principle of similarity to organize each type of data transformation (raw, scaled raw, log transformed, scaled log transformed) by rows, it was really easy to compare PCA results between various data transformation methods. It is clear that data transformation methods affect the number of significant PCs (PCs before the first PC with eigenvalue lower than one, according to Gabriel's explanation), total variance explained by top 100 PCs, and the shape of the data transformed to PC1 and PC2 space.

3. How could you improve the data visualization in making salient the point they said they wanted to make?

I have two suggestions to further improve the saliency of Gabriel's plots. First, in order to indicate the first PC with eigenvalue lower than one on the screen plots, she should plot a horizontal line across this specific PC so that it is more clear that eigenvalue of this PC is lower than one. In addition, according to my quick search on PCA's elbow rule, it seems that one would treat all PCs before the first PC with eigenvalue lower than one as significant PCs. Thus, I believe that plotting a horizontal line across the first PC with eigenvalue lower than one would make it easier for the reader to see that distinction. Second, to encode quantitative data of gene expression in the PCA plots on the right, I would slightly change the color saturation to go from gray to certain color instead of gray to white to certain color. When there is white in the middle of color saturation, it was difficult for me to see cells that have mediocre gene expression, especially since the background of the plot is white. Using more simple color saturation of gray to certain color would make it easier to see the gradient of gene expression along the PC1 and PC2 space.