1. Which data visualization are you critiquing?

https://jef.works/genomic-data-visualization-2023/blog/2023/02/06/thartm10/

2. Do you think the author was effective in making salient the point they said they wanted to make? Why or why not?

The visualization wants to make more salient how data normalization could influence tSNE performance. 
The author visualizes the quantitative gene expression of two genes that are anti-correlated to show clustering efficiency.
It is hypothesized that KRT7 and PTPRC should be highly expressed in separate clusters, and that sigmoid normalization could enhance the clustering effect.
The visualization uses geometric primitive of points to show individual cell, and encodes the visual channel of position to show low-dimensional embedding of clusters from tSNE.
The visualization uses divergent color hue to encode quantitative gene expression, and use Gestalt principle of proximity to compare normalized and un-normalized scenarios side by side.
I think it is an effective visualization, as we could observe the differences of tSNE results due to normalization. The color hue scale is standardized and enables easy comparison.
The author claims that normalization does help tSNE clustering as the clusters appear to be more homogenous in color in the normalized graphs as opposed to the unnormalized graphs.
However, I think both the normalized and un-normalized scenarios have distinct cell clusters for the two genes, which was a correct reflection of prior biology knowledge. 
The change of clusters and homogeneity improvement are a bit vague to draw the certain conclusion that sigmoid normalization is necessary and effective.



3. How could you improve the data visualization in making salient the point they said they wanted to make?

I think the visualization could include more types of normalization, such as log-scale, division by standard deviation, normalized to 0~1, etc, as the author is trying to investigate the effectiveness of different normalization technique.
The author could also include graph for investigating artifact, such as barplot of total gene count per cell, to enhance the argument that sigmoid normalization enhances data cleanness. 
 
